\documentclass[
  man,
  floatsintext,
  longtable,
  nolmodern,
  notxfonts,
  notimes,
  colorlinks=true,linkcolor=blue,citecolor=blue,urlcolor=blue]{apa7}

\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}




\RequirePackage{longtable}
\RequirePackage{threeparttablex}

\makeatletter
\renewcommand{\paragraph}{\@startsection{paragraph}{4}{\parindent}%
	{0\baselineskip \@plus 0.2ex \@minus 0.2ex}%
	{-.5em}%
	{\normalfont\normalsize\bfseries\typesectitle}}

\renewcommand{\subparagraph}[1]{\@startsection{subparagraph}{5}{0.5em}%
	{0\baselineskip \@plus 0.2ex \@minus 0.2ex}%
	{-\z@\relax}%
	{\normalfont\normalsize\bfseries\itshape\hspace{\parindent}{#1}\textit{\addperi}}{\relax}}
\makeatother




\usepackage{longtable, booktabs, multirow, multicol, colortbl, hhline, caption, array, float, xpatch}
\setcounter{topnumber}{2}
\setcounter{bottomnumber}{2}
\setcounter{totalnumber}{4}
\renewcommand{\topfraction}{0.85}
\renewcommand{\bottomfraction}{0.85}
\renewcommand{\textfraction}{0.15}
\renewcommand{\floatpagefraction}{0.7}

\usepackage{tcolorbox}
\tcbuselibrary{listings,theorems, breakable, skins}
\usepackage{fontawesome5}

\definecolor{quarto-callout-color}{HTML}{909090}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-note-color}{HTML}{0758E5}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-important-color}{HTML}{CC1914}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-warning-color}{HTML}{EB9113}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-tip-color}{HTML}{00A047}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-caution-color}{HTML}{FC5300}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-color-frame}{HTML}{ACACAC}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-note-color-frame}{HTML}{4582EC}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-important-color-frame}{HTML}{D9534F}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-warning-color-frame}{HTML}{F0AD4E}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-tip-color-frame}{HTML}{02B875}
\definecolor{quarto-callout-caution-color-frame}{HTML}{FD7E14}

\newlength\Oldarrayrulewidth
\newlength\Oldtabcolsep


\usepackage{hyperref}




\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\usepackage{longtable,booktabs,array}
\usepackage{calc} % for calculating minipage widths
% Correct order of tables after \paragraph or \subparagraph
\usepackage{etoolbox}
\makeatletter
\patchcmd\longtable{\par}{\if@noskipsec\mbox{}\fi\par}{}{}
\makeatother
% Allow footnotes in longtable head/foot
\IfFileExists{footnotehyper.sty}{\usepackage{footnotehyper}}{\usepackage{footnote}}
\makesavenoteenv{longtable}

\usepackage{graphicx}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
% Set default figure placement to htbp
\makeatletter
\def\fps@figure{htbp}
\makeatother


% definitions for citeproc citations
\NewDocumentCommand\citeproctext{}{}
\NewDocumentCommand\citeproc{mm}{%
  \begingroup\def\citeproctext{#2}\cite{#1}\endgroup}
\makeatletter
 % allow citations to break across lines
 \let\@cite@ofmt\@firstofone
 % avoid brackets around text for \cite:
 \def\@biblabel#1{}
 \def\@cite#1#2{{#1\if@tempswa , #2\fi}}
\makeatother
\newlength{\cslhangindent}
\setlength{\cslhangindent}{1.5em}
\newlength{\csllabelwidth}
\setlength{\csllabelwidth}{3em}
\newenvironment{CSLReferences}[2] % #1 hanging-indent, #2 entry-spacing
 {\begin{list}{}{%
  \setlength{\itemindent}{0pt}
  \setlength{\leftmargin}{0pt}
  \setlength{\parsep}{0pt}
  % turn on hanging indent if param 1 is 1
  \ifodd #1
   \setlength{\leftmargin}{\cslhangindent}
   \setlength{\itemindent}{-1\cslhangindent}
  \fi
  % set entry spacing
  \setlength{\itemsep}{#2\baselineskip}}}
 {\end{list}}
\usepackage{calc}
\newcommand{\CSLBlock}[1]{\hfill\break\parbox[t]{\linewidth}{\strut\ignorespaces#1\strut}}
\newcommand{\CSLLeftMargin}[1]{\parbox[t]{\csllabelwidth}{\strut#1\strut}}
\newcommand{\CSLRightInline}[1]{\parbox[t]{\linewidth - \csllabelwidth}{\strut#1\strut}}
\newcommand{\CSLIndent}[1]{\hspace{\cslhangindent}#1}


\usepackage[nolongtablepatch]{lineno}
\linenumbers



\usepackage{newtx}

\defaultfontfeatures{Scale=MatchLowercase}
\defaultfontfeatures[\rmfamily]{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=1}





\title{Contextual cuing survives an interruption from an endogenous cue
for attention}


\shorttitle{Contextual cuing and endogenous cuing}


\usepackage{etoolbox}









\authorsnames[{1},{1},{1},{1},{1},{2}]{Tom Beesley,Louise Earl,Hope
Butler,Inez Sharp,Ieva Jaceviciute,David Luque}







\authorsaffiliations{
{Lancaster University},{Universidad de MÃ¡laga}}




\leftheader{Beesley, Earl, Butler, Sharp, Jaceviciute and Luque}



\abstract{Three experiments explored how the repetition of a visual
search display guides search during contextual cuing under conditions in
which the search process is interrupted by an instructional (endogenous)
cue for attention. In Experiment 1, participants readily learnt about
repeated configurations of visual search, before being presented with an
endogenous cue for attention towards the target on every trial.
Participants used this cue to improve search times, but the repeated
contexts continued to guide attention. Experiment 2 demonstrated that
the presence of the endogenous did not impede the acquisition of
contextual cuing. Experiment 3 confirmed the hypothesis that the
contextual cuing effect relies largely on localised distractor contexts,
following the guidance of attention. Together, the experiments point
towards an interplay between two drivers of attention: after the initial
guidance of attention, memory representations of the context continue to
guide attention towards the target, suggesting that CC representations
are flexibly deployed when the search procedure is dramatically
interrupted.\\
Public significance statement: This study provides a test of how
attention is governed by different aspects of the environment. We
examine whether the control of attention by an instructional stimulus
(an arrow that directs attention) will interfere with the way in which
attention is governed by other learnt visual patterns in the
environment.}

\keywords{visual search; incidental learning; contextual cuing;
attention; endogenous cuing}

\authornote{\par{\addORCIDlink{Tom Beesley}{0000-0003-2836-2743}} 

\par{       }
\par{Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Tom
Beesley, Lancaster University, Department of Psychology, Lancaster
University, UK, LA1 4YD, UK, Email: t.beesley@lancaster.ac.uk}
}

\makeatletter
\let\endoldlt\endlongtable
\def\endlongtable{
\hline
\endoldlt
}
\makeatother

\urlstyle{same}



\makeatletter
\@ifpackageloaded{caption}{}{\usepackage{caption}}
\AtBeginDocument{%
\ifdefined\contentsname
  \renewcommand*\contentsname{Table of contents}
\else
  \newcommand\contentsname{Table of contents}
\fi
\ifdefined\listfigurename
  \renewcommand*\listfigurename{List of Figures}
\else
  \newcommand\listfigurename{List of Figures}
\fi
\ifdefined\listtablename
  \renewcommand*\listtablename{List of Tables}
\else
  \newcommand\listtablename{List of Tables}
\fi
\ifdefined\figurename
  \renewcommand*\figurename{Figure}
\else
  \newcommand\figurename{Figure}
\fi
\ifdefined\tablename
  \renewcommand*\tablename{Table}
\else
  \newcommand\tablename{Table}
\fi
}
\@ifpackageloaded{float}{}{\usepackage{float}}
\floatstyle{ruled}
\@ifundefined{c@chapter}{\newfloat{codelisting}{h}{lop}}{\newfloat{codelisting}{h}{lop}[chapter]}
\floatname{codelisting}{Listing}
\newcommand*\listoflistings{\listof{codelisting}{List of Listings}}
\makeatother
\makeatletter
\makeatother
\makeatletter
\@ifpackageloaded{caption}{}{\usepackage{caption}}
\@ifpackageloaded{subcaption}{}{\usepackage{subcaption}}
\makeatother

% From https://tex.stackexchange.com/a/645996/211326
%%% apa7 doesn't want to add appendix section titles in the toc
%%% let's make it do it
\makeatletter
\xpatchcmd{\appendix}
  {\par}
  {\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{\@currentlabelname}\par}
  {}{}
\makeatother

\begin{document}

\maketitle


\setcounter{secnumdepth}{-\maxdimen} % remove section numbering

\setlength\LTleft{0pt}

\resetlinenumber[1]

It is well established that the process of visual search is guided by
past experience. When we encounter a scene, the extent to which the
stimuli within that scene match representations in memory will determine
the effectiveness of the stimulus processing and subsequent search
through the scene. This cognitive process is studied in the lab using
the contextual cuing (CC) task: participants typically experience a
standard visual search task (i.e., serial processing; slow search), such
as searching for a T amongst L shapes. A set of search configurations is
repeated across trials, and response times to targets are faster
compared to those in configurations that do not repeat. Thus, the
repetition of the search configurations leads to the formation of a
representation of the configuration in memory, and future processing of
the same configuration activates this representation, driving more
efficient behaviour within that scene.

Much work has focused on the nature of the memory and attention
processes responsible for contextual cuing. The effect was initially
suggested to be implicit in nature, with repeated configurations
seemingly guiding search unconsciously: typically participants are
unable to articulate their knowledge of the repeated configurations, and
show poor ability to recognise learnt configurations in memory tests
(e.g., \citeproc{ref-chun1998}{Chun \& Jiang, 1998};
\citeproc{ref-colagiuri2016}{Colagiuri \& Livesey, 2016}), although this
view of CC has been strongly contested (e.g.,
\citeproc{ref-smyth2008}{Smyth \& Shanks, 2008};
\citeproc{ref-vadillo2016}{Vadillo et al., 2016}). There are also a
number of plausible computational models of how memory representations
of repeated configurations are formed and result in the CC effect (e.g.,
\citeproc{ref-beesley2015b}{Beesley et al., 2015};
\citeproc{ref-brady2007}{Brady \& Chun, 2007}). The predominant view is
that the memory representations are best characterised as associative in
nature, whereby distractors (or groups of distractors, see
\citeproc{ref-beesley2016}{Beesley et al., 2016}) form associations that
activate more strongly the contingent target position within each
repeated configuration.

The exact nature of how repeated configurations come to facilitate
visual search is the focus of much debate within the literature. Broadly
there are two quite distinct theoretical accounts of why responses are
faster for repeated configurations: the early attentional guidance
account, and the late response facilitation account. According to the
early account, recognition of the configuration leads to a more
efficient search process through the distractor array, such that the
target is localised (fixated) at an earlier time point in search.
Perhaps the clearest (and arguably simplest) evidence in support of this
account comes from studies of eye-tracking during CC. For example,
search through repeated configurations results in fewer fixations prior
to target localisation (e.g., \citeproc{ref-beesley2018}{Beesley et al.,
2018}; \citeproc{ref-tseng2004}{Tseng \& Li, 2004}). According to the
late response facilitation account, the benefit for repeated
configurations comes about as a result of enhanced target processing
once it has been localised by attention. One conceptualisation of this
process is that repeated configurations lead to a reduction in the
evidence threshold required to ascertain that the target is present in
its location, such that responses can be initiated earlier. Such an
account has been put forward by Sewell et al.
(\citeproc{ref-sewell2018}{2018}), in order to explain the evidence
supporting the late account from response time modelling of the CC
effect.

It seems likely that the both early and late processes contribute to the
overall CC effect (for a review see \citeproc{ref-sisk2019}{Sisk et al.,
2019}). The current article focuses on exploration of the early-stage
attentional account of CC. The term ``early'' here reflects the fact
that the CC benefit is present prior to the detection of the target and
the initiation of the response to the target. In fact, the ``early''
phase can be further divided. Analysis of eye-movements has shown that
serial visual search can be defined as having two distinct phases: an
initial ineffective search in which the direction of saccades are
inconsistent and a secondary effective phase in which each saccade will
draw attention closer to the target. CC appears to result from having
more trials with a shorter ineffective phase.

One interpretation of these data is that CC is initially not driven at
all by the configuration, and that the initial distractor processing is
not beneficial for the representations that form for repeated
configurations. Supporting evidence for this account comes from Olson
and Chun (\citeproc{ref-olson2002}{2002}), where participants were
trained on a CC task in which either all the distractors repeated, those
in the half of the screen containing the target (short-range-context),
or those in the half of the screen that didn't contain the target
(long-range-context). CC was observed in the short-range-context, but
not in the long-range-context condition. Thus it would appear that the
distractors further from the target are not critical to the generation
of a CC effect.

Brady and Chun (\citeproc{ref-brady2007}{2007})'s computational account
features a mechanism that ensures spatial constraints are placed on the
learning of associations with relation to their proximity to the target.
If the spatial constraints are tuned to modulate learning and restrict
associative formations to only those distractors close to the target,
this model can accurately model the data from Olson and Chun
(\citeproc{ref-olson2002}{2002}). Since the only consequential mechanism
in the model for CC is the associative weights (and their modulation by
spatial constraints), then one prediction that follows from this account
is that the initial phase of search is inconsequential for observing CC.

In contrast to the localised facilitation account, it's possible that
contextual cuing involves learning of a procedural template that guides
eye-movements in a consistent pattern for each repeated configuration.
While the initial process may be inefficient in nature, it may
nevertheless be an important part of the procedural response in terms of
the sequence of eye-movements. Recent experiments from Seitz et al.
(\citeproc{ref-seitz2023}{2023}) suggests that more generic scanning
behaviour forms part of the procedural knowledge that contributes to CC.
The current article provides a test of this prediction by significantly
interrupting the search process with an endogenous cue for attention. In
all experiments participants complete a contextual cuing visual search
task but are also presented with an arrow that signals the side of the
screen on which the target will appear. Thus, this cue disrupts the
natural search process, eliminating entirely the early phase of search.
The experiments therefore examine the extent to which this initial part
of the search process is truly inconsequential for the observation of
the CC effect.

In the current experiments we explored how CC is affected by the
interruption of the search process by a clear direction of attention
from an endogenous cue. In Experiment 1 we examine whether a learnt
pattern of behaviour is disrupted due to the onset of the endogenous
cue, while in Experiment 2 we seek to establish whether the CC effect is
weaker under these conditions. Experiment 3 explores the underlying
drivers of the CC effect, in terms of the distractor-target
associations, during these procedures.

\section{Experiment 1}\label{experiment-1}

Experiment 1 sought to examine whether the learnt attentional behaviour
that develops during contextual cuing is still expressed when
participants are directed by an endogenous (instructional) cue to search
in a particular region of the visual scene, hindering the operation of
early-stage visual search processes. Participants were first trained
with a set of four repeating configurations in phase 1 across 5 epochs
of 32 trials each. Then prior to phase 2, participants were told that an
arrow would appear before every trial indicating the side of the screen
on which the target would be located. This arrow was valid on every
trial. In phase 2, the repeating configurations were presented in two
forms: ``consistent'', where the target appeared in the same position as
it has appeared for that configuration in phase 1; and ``inconsistent'',
where the target appeared in a position in the opposite quadrant of the
screen from where it had appeared in phase 1. Random configurations were
also presented in this phase. The inclusion of the inconsistent trials
in this phase provides a test of whether the distractors processed in
the early stages of search continue to guide attention in the presence
of the endognenous cue. If this is the case, we would also expect that
the contextual cues would guide attention \emph{away} from the (new)
target quadrant on inconsistent trials, and so response times should be
slower on these trials compared to those on random trials.

\subsection{Method}\label{method}

\subsubsection{Participants}\label{participants}

Thirty-one undergraduate students from Lancaster University were
recruited (mean age = 20.1, SD = 1.1; 17 identified as female and 14 as
male) via the Psychology Research Participation System in the Department
of Psychology at Lancaster University, in return for the opportunity to
use the recruitment system for their own research in future years.
Analysis of the current experiments was performed with Bayesian methods,
seeking support for either the null or alternative hypothesis on
critical tests. As such we aimed for the maximum sample size that could
be achieved by the resources of the experimenter (approximately 30).
These sample sizes were similar to much of our previous lab work with
contextual cuing tasks.

\subsubsection{Materials}\label{materials}

Participants were tested individually in a quiet room with a Dell laptop
with a 15.6'' screen, a screen resolution of 1920 x 1080, and a full
size external keyboard for participants to use to respond to the task.
Participants sat approximately 50 cm from the screen. Stimulus
presentation was controlled by MATLAB using the Psychophysics Toolbox
extensions (Brainard, 1997; Kleiner, Brainard \& Pelli, 2007; Pelli,
1997). Responses to the target stimulus were made by pressing the `c' or
`n' key on a standard keyboard. All experimental materials are available
at the github repository for this study.

Distractor stimuli were an `L' shape (rotated 0Â°, 90Â°, 180Â°, or 270Â°)
while the target stimulus was a `T' shape (rotated at either 90Â° or
270Â°). Stimuli were 8 mm square and arranged in a square grid of 144
evenly spaced cells (12 x 12) which was positioned centrally on the
screen and was 170 mm square. The grid itself was invisible to
participants. The fixation cross (displayed centrally before each trial)
was 4 mm square. The background of the screen was grey (RGB: .6, .6, .6)
and the stimuli were presented in black (RGB: 1, 1, 1). There was a
small offset in the vertical line of the `L' distractors, which
increased the similarity between the `L' distractors and the target `T',
making the search task more difficult (Duncan \& Humphreys, 1989).

\subsubsection{Design}\label{design}

Phase 1 employed a within-subjects design with factors of epoch (1-5)
and configuration (repeated and random). All configurations contained 16
distractors, equally divided between the four quadrants of the display,
and one target. Four repeated configurations were trained\footnote{Though
  CC experiments may frequently train 8 or 12 repeated configurations,
  it has been established that participants typically learn only a
  subset of these (\citeproc{ref-smyth2008}{Smyth \& Shanks, 2008}). In
  order to avoid simply adding unnecessary noise to our measure of CC,
  our lab typically trains just 4 repeated configurations in our CC
  procedures.}. Four target locations were used, with one from each
quadrant assigned to each of the repeated configurations. These same
four target positions were used for the random configurations throughout
the task. Each of these four target positions was chosen at random from
one of five locations within each quadrant, that were approximately
equidistant from the center of the screen. Distractors could not appear
in these target locations.

Phase 2 employed a within-subjects design with factors of epoch (6-10)
and configuration (repeated: consistent; repeated: inconsistent; random:
consistent; random:inconsistent). On each trial, there was a .5
probability that an ``inconsistent'' version of the configuration would
be presented. This meant that the target was relocated to a
diametrically opposed target position such as to maximise the
displacement from the trained target position (see
Figure~\ref{fig-schematic}). This could occur for both the repeated and
random configurations, hence creating four unique trial types for this
phase. While random configurations did not have a ``trained'',
associated, target position, it is necessary to divide the random trials
into consistent and inconsistent trial types in this way in order to
assess any target frequency effects that may occur, since the
inconsistent target locations used in this phase were novel.

\begin{figure}[H]

\centering{

\includegraphics{Schematic.png}

}

\caption{\label{fig-schematic}Schematic of the manipulation of target
position in consistent and inconsistent trials of phase 2. The dashed
lines show the division of the stimuli into quadrants, but were not
present in the task procedure.}

\end{figure}%

\subsubsection{Procedure}\label{procedure}

Participants were tested individually in a quiet testing room. They were
given instructions on how to complete the task, including the
presentation of an example of a search trial. Participants were shown
the two correct responses for the two possible orientations of targets.

Each trial commenced with a fixation cross presented in the center of
the screen for 500 ms, which was then replaced immediately by the search
configuration. Participants searched for the target stimulus and
responded with a left or right response depending on its orientation.
Reaction times (RTs) were recorded from the onset of the search
configuration. Following a valid response (c or n), the configuration
was removed from the screen. The ITI was 1000 ms. If participants made
an incorrect response to the target orientation, ``INCORRECT RESPONSE''
appeared in red in the center of the screen for 3000 ms, prior to the
ITI. If participants did not respond within 6000 ms, ``TIMEOUT - TOO
SLOW'' appeared in red in the center of the screen for 3000 ms, prior to
the ITI.

Each block of eight trials contained each of the four different repeated
configurations and four random configurations. These eight
configurations could appear in any order with the constraint that the
position of the target did not repeat across trials or across
consecutive blocks.

A rest break of 30 seconds was given every 80 trials. Trials started
automatically after these breaks.

After 160 trials, prior to phase 2, participants were given an
instruction screen which detailed the arrow that would appear on the
screen prior to the configuration. They were able to ask any questions
they had at this stage and then proceeded to phase 2. The arrow appeared
for 1000ms following the fixation cross, before the presentation of the
search configuration. The task was otherwise identical to that used in
phase 1.

\subsection{Results}\label{results}

Our criterion for removing outlier data, at both the participant level
and the trial level, was 2.5 standard deviations above or below the mean
of the sample. On average, trials ended with a timeout on 1.97\% of
trials (SD = 2.53). Two participants had an usually high proportion of
timeouts and were removed from the analysis. The mean accuracy of
participants (not including timeout trials) was 98.10\% (SD = 1.65\%).
One participant had an unusually low proportion of accurate trials and
was also removed. The only participant deemed to be an outlier in terms
of mean response time (hereafter RT) was also excluded on the basis of
the timeout criterion, noted above. For the remaining twenty-eight
participants we removed trials with a timeout and inaccurate trials,
before removing outliers from the RT data. On average, the proportion of
outliers removed was 3.03\% (SD = 0.79\%). Zero participants had an
unusual proportion of trials removed as outlier RTs (greater than 2.5
SDs above the mean).

\begin{figure}[H]

\centering{

\includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth,height=0.7\textheight]{CCEC_ms1_files/figure-pdf/fig-RT-exp1-1.pdf}

}

\caption{\label{fig-RT-exp1}RT data for Experiment 1. The phase 2
averages across the four trial types are shown inset. Within-subject
error bars were computed by a process of normalising the RT data for the
sample (Cousineau, 2005).}

\end{figure}%

Figure~\ref{fig-RT-exp1} shows the RT data across the 10 epochs of the
experiment. In phase 1 (epochs 1-5) a contextual cuing effect emerged,
with faster responses to repeated over random configurations. In phase
2, the presence of the guiding arrow led to a clear reduction in the
response times. For all participants, the mean RT across epochs 4 and 5
was higher than the mean RTs across epochs 6 and 7. Despite the clear
evidence for the processing of the endogenous cue, the underlying search
configuration continued to play a role in the guidance of attention,
with faster response times for (consistent) repeated configurations
compared to random configurations.

These data were analysed with a Bayesian ANOVA\footnote{The Bayesian
  analyses here follow the process outlined in Rouder et al.
  (\citeproc{ref-rouder2017}{2017}). Briefly, we present the best
  fitting model evaluated against the null model, and then compare this
  fit to that of other models. Where the comparison of two models (i.e.,
  A against B) reveals a Bayes Factor of greater than 3, this is taken
  as support for the components of model A that are not present in model
  B. Bayes Factors of less than 0.33 are taken as evidence in support of
  the equivalence of two models. Following Wetzels et al.
  (\citeproc{ref-wetzels2011}{2011}) we use the terms ``substantial''
  (BF\textgreater3; BF\textless1/3), and ``strong'' (BF\textgreater10;
  BF\textless1/10) to reflect the levels of support for the results of
  the model comparisons.}, using the \emph{BayesFactor::anovaBF()}
function in R. All analyses in this study used the default parameters
for the priors, which ``places mass in reason-able ranges {[}of effect
sizes{]} without being overcommitted to any one point''
(\citeproc{ref-rouder2017}{Rouder et al., 2017, p. 317}). First taking
the data from phase 1 (epochs 1-5), there was strong support for the
model containing the factors of epoch and configuration (repeated
vs.~random), BF\textsubscript{10} = 2.2 Ã 10\textsuperscript{12} Â±
4.87\%. The addition of the interaction term did not improve the model
fit, BF = 0.42 Â± 5.73\%, though there was no evidence for the absence of
the interaction. The best fitting model was a better fit than the two
models containing only one of the factors, smallest BF = 36.01 Â± 5.13\%,
providing strong support for both the effects of configuration and
epoch. Partial eta-squared (\(n^2_p\)) effect sizes were calculated
using \emph{effectsize::eta\_squared}, giving values of: 0.22 for the
effect of configuration; 0.39 for the effect of epoch; and 0.1 for the
interaction effect.

A Bayesian ANOVA on the data from phase 2 (epochs 6-10) found strong
support for the model containing the factors of configuration (repeated
vs.~random) and target position (consistent vs.~inconsistent),
BF\textsubscript{10} = 45.79 Â± 3.91\%. The next best fitting model
contained these two factors and the interaction term, and was not a
substantially worse fit to the data, BF = 0.61 Â± 18.07\%. The best
fitting model (with factors of configuration and target position, but no
interaction) was a substantially better fit to the data than the model
containing only the factor of configuration BF = 21.92 Â± 4.33\%
providing evidence that RTs were faster on consistent than inconsistent
trials. There was no evidence for a difference between the best fitting
model and the model containing only the factor of target position, BF =
2.26 Â± 6.8\%. The relevant effect sizes (\(n^2_p\)) were: 0.14 for the
effect of configuration; 0.22 for the effect of target position; and
0.14 for the interaction of these two factors.

To further explore responses to the different trial types in phase 2,
Bayesian t-tests were run using BayesFactor::ttestBF (using the default
Cauchy prior) for comparisons between the repeated and random
configurations, across the two target position conditions (consistent
and inconsistent). This revealed substantial support for a difference
between the response times on ``repeated: consistent'' trials and those
on the respective random trials (random: consistent),
BF\textsubscript{10} = 4.14 Â± 0\%. There was also substantial evidence
to suggest there was no meaningful difference between the response times
for the ``repeated: inconsistent'' trials and the respective random
trials, BF\textsubscript{10} = 0.24 Â± 0.03\%.

To compare the size of the CC effect across phases 1 and 2, we
calculated a ``CC effect score'' by subtracting the RT on consistent
repeated trials from the RT on consistent random trials. Positive values
reflect a CC effect. There was a CC effect score of 142.72 ms (SD =
202.68) for the end of phase 1 (epochs 3-5) and a CC effect score of
106.76 ms (SD = 176.12) for the start of phase 2 (epochs 6-8). A
Bayesian t-test of the effect of phase on CC effect found moderate
support for the null result, BF = 0.25, suggesting that the CC effect
was not attenuated in the second phase.

\subsection{Discussion}\label{discussion}

In Experiment 1 we established a contextual cuing effect in the first
phase, before introducing an endogenous cue for attention that directed
the participants consistently towards the side of the screen on which
the target was presented. Unsurprisingly, this had a dramatic effect on
reducing RTs in all participants, but there remained a significant
contextual cuing effect in this second phase. Thus, disrupting a
substantial part of the early search process did not appear to affect
the performance of the contextual cuing that had been established:
notably there was evidence to suggest that the contextual cuing effect
in phase 2 was of a similar magnitude to that which was observed in
phase 1. On some repeated trials in phase 2, we positioned the target in
a diametrically opposed location on the screen. On these trials there
was no impact of the repeated configuration on performance.

These findings together support a view of contextual cuing in which the
initial process of search is inefficient, not being guided in any way by
the repeated context. Only when attention lands within a region of space
approaching the target does the repeated configuration take over to
guide search efficiently towards the target. It should be acknowledged
that the variable search behaviour that participants would exhibit
during the early part of the search process would naturally lead them to
search the area around the target on many trials. As such, on trials
without the endogenous cue, the termination of the inefficient phase of
search will occur earlier on some trials compared to others. The cuing
of attention by the valid arrow cue ensures this termination happens on
every cued trial, eliminating the inefficient phase of search.

The maintenance of a robust contextual cuing effect in phase 2, in the
presence of the endogenous cue, suggests that CC is a robust and
flexible behaviour. The apparent ability to entirely disrupt and negate
the early part of the search process, whilst maintaining an intact CC
effect, is somewhat at odds with the ``general procedural learning''
that has been suggested to occur in CC (\citeproc{ref-seitz2023}{Seitz
et al., 2023}). According to this account, ``\ldots what may look an
ineffective phase {[}of search{]} actually constitutes an important
period during which procedural learning of a general scanning scheme
becomes functional.'' (\citeproc{ref-seitz2023}{Seitz et al., 2023, p.
9}). The present data suggest that this aspect of search can be removed
at no cost to CC.

\section{Experiment 2}\label{experiment-2}

In Experiment 1 we demonstrated that an established effect of contextual
cuing is maintained even when attention is being guided by the presence
of a valid endogenous cue. That is, we found that the \emph{performance}
of an established search behaviour in contextual cuing is not disrupted
by the guidance of attention. In Experiment 2 we wanted to explore
whether the \emph{learning} of the contextual cue itself was affected by
the presence of a valid endogenous cue. That is, does the presence of a
valid endongenous cue, which leads to a controlled command of attention,
limit the development of a contextual cuing effect. To do this, we
trained each participant on two sets of repeating configurations. One of
these sets was always presented in the presence of a valid endogenous
cue, while the other set was always presented in the absence of the
endogenous cue. The extent to which there is a ``cue-competition''
effect between the endogenous cue and the contextual cues can be
examined by comparing the contextual cuing effect we observe for the two
sets of configurations. Given the clear difference in RTs we observed in
Experiment 1 between the trials with the endogenous cue present and the
cue being absent, we anticipated the same difference in responding in
Experiment 2. Therefore we also included a second phase of Experiment 2
in which we removed the endogenous cue entirely from the task. This
second phase therefore allowed us to directly compare the contextual
cuing for the two sets of configurations when RTs were at a comparable
level.

Given the results of Experiment 1, we would anticipate that the size of
the CC effect would be comparable in the two conditions. That is,
Experiment 1 suggests that the CC effect is unaffected by the presence
of the endogneous cue, and therefore that the effect is reliant on the
cuing that occurs by distractors later in the search process. Removal of
the inefficient period of search should not dramatically affect the
development of CC.

\subsection{Method}\label{method-1}

\subsubsection{Participants}\label{participants-1}

Thirty-four undergraduate students from Lancaster University were
recruited (mean age = 20.74, SD = 5.29; 28 identified as female and 6 as
male) via the Psychology Research Participation System in the Department
of Psychology at Lancaster University, in return for the opportunity to
use the recruitment system for their own research in future years.

\subsubsection{Materials}\label{materials-1}

Participants were tested in a quiet laboratory testing cubicle, with a
standard PC and a 24'' monitor set at a resolution of 1920 x 1080
pixels. Since the monitor was larger for this experiment, the dimensions
of the presented stimuli had a proportional increase in size: Distractor
stimuli were 11 mm square; the search grid was 240 mm square; the
fixation cross was 6 mm square. In all other respects, the materials
were the same as those detailed in Experiment 1.

\subsubsection{Design}\label{design-1}

Four repeated configurations were created in an identical manner to
those used in Experiment 1. For each participant, two of these
configurations were used for the condition in which the arrow cue was
presented before the configuration, while two were used for the
``control'' condition (no arrow presented). As in Experiment 1, the four
repeated configurations were paired with unique target positions from
each of the four quadrants. We counterbalanced the use of the target
quadrants across the factors of configuration type (repeated and random)
and cue condition (arrow vs.~no-arrow). For half of the participants,
targets in the top left and bottom right were used for the repeated
configurations presented with the arrow (cue-competition) condition,
with targets in the top right and bottom left used for repeated
configurations in the no-arrow (control) condition. For these
participants, random configurations presented with the arrow had targets
in the top right and bottom left, and random configurations without the
arrow had targets in the top left and bottom right. For the other half
of the participants these assignments were reversed (repeated-arrow:
top-right and bottom-left; repeated-no arrow: top-left and bottom-right;
random-arrow: top-left and bottom-right; random-no arrow: top-right and
bottom-left).

\subsubsection{Procedure}\label{procedure-1}

The procedure was the same as Experiment 1 with the following
differences. Participants received 320 trials in total. For the first
160 trials, the arrow was presented for the relevant conditions. For the
final 160 trials, the arrow was never presented. Rest breaks were given
every 60 trials.

\subsection{Results}\label{results-1}

Our criteria for removing outlier data were identical to Experiment 1.
On average, trials ended with a timeout on 2.13\% of trials (SD = 1.83).
Zero participants had an usually high proportion of timeouts. The mean
accuracy of participants (not including timeout trials) was 95.85\% (SD
= 6.10\%). One participant had an unusually low proportion of accurate
trials and were removed from the sample. Zero participants were deemed
to be an outlier in terms of mean RT.

For the remaining thirty-three participants we removed trials with a
timeout and inaccurate trials, before removing outliers from the RT
data. On average, the proportion of outliers removed was 2.81\% (SD =
1.04\%). One participant had an unusual proportion of trials removed as
outlier RTs and were not included in the final analysis.

\begin{figure}[H]

\centering{

\includegraphics[width=0.9\textwidth,height=0.8\textheight]{CCEC_ms1_files/figure-pdf/fig-RT-exp2-1.pdf}

}

\caption{\label{fig-RT-exp2}RT data for Experiment 2. Error bars show
standard error of the mean on normalised data.}

\end{figure}%

Figure~\ref{fig-RT-exp2} shows the RT data across the 10 epochs of the
experiment. Contextual cuing emerged rapidly in both the arrow and
no-arrow conditions, with little suggestion that the CC effect was
different in the two conditions. The phase 1 data were explored with a
Bayesian ANOVA, which revealed that the best fitting model contained the
factors of epoch, configuration (repeated vs.~random), and endogenous
cue (arrow present vs.~arrow absent), with no interaction terms,
BF\textsubscript{10} = 7.3 Ã 10\textsuperscript{100} Â± 8.49\%. The next
best fitting model contained all three factors and the interaction of
epoch and configuration, BF\textsubscript{10} = 4.5 Ã
10\textsuperscript{100} Â± 4.32\%, and this model was not a substantially
worse fit to the data, BF = 0.61 Â± 9.53\%. All other models were
substantially worse fits than the best fitting model, largest BF = 0.27
Â± 6.13\%. Importantly, the interaction term between the factors of
endogenous cue and configuration did not improve the fit of the model,
providing substantial support for the absence of this interaction, BF =
0.17 Â± 9.54\%. The relevant effect sizes (\(n^2_p\)) were: 0.02 for the
effect of epoch; 0.4 for the effect of configuration; 0.85 for the
effect of endogenous cue; 0.12 for the interaction effect between
configuration and epoch; and 0.02 for the interaction between
configuration and endogenous cue.

\begin{verbatim}
Cohen's d |         95% CI
--------------------------
-1.25     | [-1.70, -0.78]
\end{verbatim}

When the endogenous cue was removed in the second half of the
experiment, RTs were equivalent across the two conditions. An effect of
configuration was seen for both cuing conditions, with little
discernible difference between the size of the cuing effects. We
conducted a Bayesian ANOVA with factors of epoch, configuration and
endogenous cue condition (arrow vs.~no-arrow). The best fitting model
was that with just the factors of epoch and configuration with no
interaction between the factors, BF\textsubscript{10} = 9.7 Ã
10\textsuperscript{14} Â± 4.37\%. There was substantial support for this
model over the next best fitting model, BF = 10.32 Â± 5.65\%. To examine
the interaction of the configuration and endogenous cue factors, we
compared the model containing those two factors to the model containing
the two factors plus the interaction of configuration and endogenous
cue, which revealed substantial support for the absence of an
interaction, BF = 0.16 Â± 11.71\%. The relevant effect sizes (\(n^2_p\))
were: 0.62 for the effect of configuration; and 0.25 for the effect of
epoch.

To provide further support for the absence of the interaction between
the factors of configuration type and endogenous cue, the data from
across the experiment (epochs 1-10) were analysed with a Bayesian ANOVA
with only the factors of configuration and endogenous cue. The best
fitting model was that with the two factors and no interaction,
BF\textsubscript{10} = 3.4 Ã 10\textsuperscript{51} Â± 4.2\%. The
addition of the interaction term did not strengthen the model, with
substantial evidence for the absence of the interaction, BF = 0.1 Â±
12.92\%. The relevant effect sizes (\(n^2_p\)) were: 0.77 for the effect
of the endogenous cue; and 0.61 for the effect of configuration.

\subsection{Discussion}\label{discussion-1}

Experiment 2 sought to examine whether the presence of a valid
endogenous cue would impair the acquisition of a contextual cuing
effect. In the first phase, two sets of configurations were trained, one
of which was always presented in the presence of the endogenous cue, and
one set which was presented without the endogenous cue. Overall there
was considerable evidence that the cue was processed and acted upon, as
response times to the target were much faster on cued trials. However,
there was no evidence to suggest that the instructed guidance of
attention impaired the acquisition of the configurations on those
trials. Furthermore, when the endogenous cue was never presented in the
final phase of the experiment, the size of the contextual cuing effect
was equivalent between the two sets of configurations; the Bayesian
analyses found support for the equivalence of these CC effects.

The data from Experiment 2 are consistent with the findings of
Experiment 1: the early phase of search is inconsequential for the
development of contextual cuing. The equivalence of the CC effects
across the two groups (cued and uncued) would suggest that the guidance
by the context was driven entirely by the distractors that appear close
to the target. The longer search times in the uncued condition clearly
indicate that a far greater number of distractors are processed in this
condition, but that the enhancement of attentional guidance by the
repeated distractors is limited to the later part of the search process,
and therefore those nearer to the target. Alternatively, it is at least
possible that the repeated distractors are processed rapidly at the
onset of the trial, before the effects of the endogenous cue on
attention are observed. If this is the case, then those repeated
distractors that influence search (producing the CC effect) need not be
localised around the target. Experiment 3 provides a test of these two
possible accounts.

\section{Experiment 3}\label{experiment-3}

As noted earlier, the analysis of eye-movements during contextual cuing
tasks (\citeproc{ref-beesley2018}{Beesley et al., 2018};
\citeproc{ref-tseng2004}{Tseng \& Li, 2004}) has revealed a
characteristic scanning pattern comprising two phases: search initially
occurs in an inefficient manner, as the eyes move between distractors in
the central region of the distractor field, before then moving in a more
directed manner towards the target position. Contextual cuing appears to
result from a cessation of the first (inefficient) search phase at an
earlier time point in the entire search process, such that processing of
repeated distractors will, on average, result in fewer fixations. With
respect to the current study, in Experiments 1 and 2 we have initially
directed attention towards the side of the screen that contains the
target on cued trials. This will bring about an early cessation of the
first phase of the search process. From here, however, it seems that
search is still facilitated by the repetition of the context.

To test this characterisation of the interaction between the endogenous
cue and the repeated context, we exposed participants to the same
procedure as used in phase 1 of Experiment 1, which establishes a
contextual cuing effect prior to the use of the endogenous cue. In a
second phase we then presented the endogenous cue on every trial (as in
Experiment 1), but we manipulated the presence of the repeated
distractors within the configurations. For each repeated configuration
we created two variations: in the ``proximal'' configurations, only the
distractors in the quadrant containing the target match those from the
full repeated configuration, while the distractors in the other three
quadrants were randomly arranged on each trial; in the ``distal''
configurations, the distractors closest to the target were randomised,
while the distractors in the other three quadrants were the same as
those in the full repeated configuration. During this phase we also
presented fully repeated configurations and fully randomised
configurations. Comparison of the response times across these four trial
types will allow us to determine the contribution of proximal and distal
distractors to the CC effect when attention is cued endogenously.

\subsection{Method}\label{method-2}

\subsubsection{Participants}\label{participants-2}

Forty-two undergraduate students from Lancaster University were
recruited (mean age = 18.64, SD = 2.84; 28 identified as female and 14
as male) via the Psychology Research Participation System in the
Department of Psychology at Lancaster University, in return for the
opportunity to use the recruitment system for their own research in
future years.

\subsubsection{Materials}\label{materials-2}

All materials, including stimuli and testing environment were identical
to Experiment 2.

\subsubsection{Design}\label{design-2}

The design of phase 1 was identical to Experiment 1, with four repeated
configurations created and presented with random configurations during
this phase. For phase 2, each of the four configurations was manipulated
to create two alternative conditions. In the ``Repeated distal''
condition, the four distractors in the target quadrant were randomly
arranged on each trial, while the 12 distractors in the other three
quadrants were presented in the same positions as had been trained in
phase 1. Thus, slower response times for this condition (compared to the
fully repeated configurations) would indicate the extent to which
participants CC was governed by the distractors closest to the target.
For the ``Repeated proximal'' condition, the four distractors in the
target quadrant were presented in the same positions as had been trained
in phase 1, while the 12 distractors in the other three quadrants were
randomly arranged on each trial. Thus, slower response times for this
condition (compared to the fully repeated configurations) would indicate
the extent to which CC was governed by the distractors further from the
target. Comparison of the RTs for these different configurations with
those of the random configurations would allow for the assessment of
whether these subsets of distractors had \emph{any} contribution to the
CC effect that had developed during phase 1.

\subsubsection{Procedure}\label{procedure-2}

The procedure was identical to Experiment 1.

\subsection{Results}\label{results-2}

Our criteria for removing outlier data were identical to Experiment 1.
On average, trials ended with a timeout on 2.81\% (SD = 2.25) of trials
. Two participants had an usually high proportion of timeouts and were
removed from the sample. The mean accuracy of participants (not
including timeout trials) was 96.09\% (SD = 8.57\%). Two participants
that had an unusually low proportion of accurate trials and were also
removed. Zero participants were deemed to be an outlier in terms of mean
RT.

For the remaining thirty-eight participants we removed trials with a
timeout and inaccurate trials, before removing outliers from the RT
data. On average, the proportion of outliers removed was 3.17\% (SD =
0.71\%). Zero participants had an unusual proportion of trials removed
as outlier RTs.

\begin{figure}[H]

\centering{

\includegraphics[width=0.9\textwidth,height=0.8\textheight]{CCEC_ms1_files/figure-pdf/fig-RT-exp3-1.pdf}

}

\caption{\label{fig-RT-exp3}RT data for Experiment 3. Error bars show
standard error of the mean on normalised data.}

\end{figure}%

Figure~\ref{fig-RT-exp3} (main panel) shows the RT data across the 10
epochs of Experiment 3. As in Experiment 1, contextual cuing was readily
established in phase 1. These data were subjected to a Bayesian ANOVA
which revealed that the best fitting model contained the factors of
configuration (repeated vs.~random) and epoch, and an interaction
between those factors, BF\textsubscript{10} = 5.4 Ã
10\textsuperscript{24} Â± 3.71\%. However, the model without the
interaction provided a strong fit to the data, BF\textsubscript{10} = 5
Ã 10\textsuperscript{24} Â± 3.46\%, and a comparison between the two
models did not find any evidence in support of the interaction term, BF
= 0.93 Â± 5.07\%. There was strong support for the best fitting model
over the remaining models, smallest BF = 3962.09 Â± 4.01\%, providing
strong support for the factors of epoch and configuration. The relevant
effect sizes (\(n^2_p\)) were: 0.38 for the effect of the epoch; and
0.47 for the effect of configuration; and 0.08 for the interaction of
these two factors.

The response times decreased significantly with the presentation of the
valid endogenous cue in phase 2. Response times to the fully repeated
configurations were somewhat comparable to those when just the proximal
repeated distractors were present. Response times for the distal
repeated distractors appeared to be slower and comparable to the fully
random configurations. The phase 2 data were subjected to a Bayesian
ANOVA which found that the best fitting model contained the factors of
configuration and epoch but no interaction between the factors,
BF\textsubscript{10} = 1.4 Ã 10\textsuperscript{14} Â± 3.24\%. This model
provided a superior fit to the data compared to the next best fitting
model that included the two factors and the interaction term, BF =
119.54 Â± 4.62\%, providing strong support for the contribution of the
two factors and the absence of an interaction between the two factors.
The relevant effect sizes (\(n^2_p\)) were: 0.37 for the effect of
configuration; and 0.16 for the effect of epoch.

The inset graph in Figure Figure~\ref{fig-RT-exp3} shows the mean RTs to
the four types of configuration, averaged across the 5 epochs of phase
2. To explore the differences in response times, Bayesian t-tests were
run for all pairwise comparisons. The response times to repeated and
repeated-proximal configurations were both faster than those to random
configurations, smallest BF\textsubscript{10} = 10313.81 Â± 0\%. In
contrast, there was no evidence that the response times to
repeated-distal configurations were different from those to random
configurations, BF\textsubscript{10} = 0.39 Â± 0.04\%. Response times to
repeated configurations were faster than those to repeated-proximal
configurations, BF\textsubscript{10} = 4.67 Â± 0\%. Response times to
repeated-proximal configurations were faster than those to
repeated-distal configurations, BF\textsubscript{10} = 31.88 Â± 0\%.

\subsection{Discussion}\label{discussion-2}

Experiment 3 explored the localisation of the distractors driving
contextual cuing when attention is guided by an endogenous cue. As
expected, there was substantial evidence that contextual cuing was
present when the distractors close to the target were maintained, but
not when these distractors were randomly arranged. These data appear to
confirm a clear order to the interplay between the two drivers of
attention: initially attention is guided by the endogenous cue towards
one half of the screen, and then search is refined by the presence of
the valid configural cues (the repeated distractors). Like in Experiment
1, the phase 2 data demonstrate the resilience of the CC effect to
changes in the search process. Despite visual search never commencing in
a cued manner during the initial acquisition period of phase 1, a CC
effect was readily observed in phase 2. Thus it seems that the stored
representations of configurations surrounding target positions are
flexibly deployed in visual search, despite changing demands on
controlled attentional processes. Notably the fully repeated
configurations exerted more of a benefit on search than those containing
only the proximal distractors, suggesting that the repeating distractors
beyond the target quadrant have some (but possibly lesser) influence on
search (\citeproc{ref-brady2007}{Brady \& Chun, 2007}).

These data lend support to the notion that the effect of the repeated
configuration is a late process within visual search, and that each
trial commences with an inefficient search process that is not guided by
the repeated configuration (\citeproc{ref-beesley2018}{Beesley et al.,
2018}; \citeproc{ref-tseng2004}{Tseng \& Li, 2004}). In some ways, these
findings represent a paradox of CC: the cuing effect occurs almost at
the point at which target detection has been made. One interpretation
would be that this exemplifies the role of spatial contiguity in the
formation of visual associations (\citeproc{ref-renaux2017}{Renaux et
al., 2017}). Alternatively, it provides support for the proposed
``decision threshold'' accounts of CC (\citeproc{ref-kunar2007}{Kunar et
al., 2007}; \citeproc{ref-sewell2018}{Sewell et al., 2018}), which posit
that the repeated distractors close to the target ensure a reduced
threshold for target detection, resulting in faster response times.

\section{General Discussion}\label{general-discussion}

Three experiments explored the impact of a central endogenous cue of
attention on the contextual cuing of visual search. In Experiment 1,
having established a contextual cuing effect, each trial was preceded by
a central endogenous cue of attention in the form of an arrow, directing
attention towards the side of the screen in which the target was
positioned (this arrow cue was always valid, as was the case in each of
the three experiments). Despite participants clearly using this cue,
visual search was still facilitated by the presence of the repeating
pattern of visual search. This experiment demonstrated that, once
acquired, the activation of the memory representation and its impact on
performance of visual search remains intact in the presence of a
top-down instruction to guide attention. Experiment 2 examined the
storage of these contextual representations, and whether these were
impaired by an endogenous cue guiding search. We found equivalent levels
of contextual cuing for two sets of configurations, one of which was
paired with the cue and one which was not. Together, these two
experiments suggest a seamless interplay between these two factors
governing attention in visual search: the endogenous cue initially
guides attention and the repeated configuration continues to refine and
guide attention towards a fixation on the target. In Experiment 3 we
therefore explored whether the localised distractors around the target
were sufficient to generate CC following the guidance by the endogenous
cue. Indeed, there was a significant CC effect in the case of the
proximal distractors, albeit slightly weaker than that generated by the
entire repeated configuration. Importantly, repeated configurations that
did not contain the proximal distractors failed to generate a CC effect,
suggesting that the proximal distractors play a crucial role in search
following the guidance of attention by the endogenous cue.

The current data reveal that the influence of repeated contexts has a
relatively late control on behaviour in visual search. Previous analysis
of eye-movements during CC (\citeproc{ref-beesley2018}{Beesley et al.,
2018}; \citeproc{ref-tseng2004}{Tseng \& Li, 2004}) has shown that
contextual cuing (and visual search more generally) has two
characteristic components. The first of these is an inefficient search
process where search fails to move towards the target in trials with
more fixations. This is followed by a phase in which monotonic, positive
increments are made toward the target position in the final 3 to 4
fixations. CC reduces the frequency of trials with the initial search
period (there are more of such trials for random configurations and
fewer for repeated configurations). Search behaviour under CC conditions
is necessarily variable, however, and each time a configuration is
encountered, the pattern of eye-movements will inevitably be driven by a
range of factors that lead to variation in the scan path taken. What is
clear is that it is the final few fixations and saccades that are
crucial to the search behaviour that facilitates CC, and this crucial
period will follow a variable length of ineffective search. Thus, the
effect of the endogenous central cue in the current study is to
eliminate, or considerably reduce, the engagement with this first phase
of the search process. The results of this study strongly imply that the
positive associative information in the repeating configurations is
extracted in the final stages of search and is localised around the
target. This is true both in terms of the performance of an acquired
configuration (Experiments 1 and 3) and the acquisition of the
representation for that configuration (Experiment 2).

Recently, work by Seitz et al. (\citeproc{ref-seitz2023}{2023}) has
suggested that CC is made up of both configuration-specific learning,
and eye-movements that reflect ``\ldots procedural learning of a general
scanning scheme\ldots{}'' {[}p.~9{]}. This latter aspect of the acquired
CC behaviour was suggested to occur within the earlier period of
inefficient search. If such a behaviour developed in our CC task, it is
clear that this behaviour is not critical to the performance of the CC
effect (in Exp 1 and Exp 3), or to the development of the learned
behaviour (Exp 2). Contrary to the suggestion by Seitz et al.
(\citeproc{ref-seitz2023}{2023}), it's at least possible that such
general procedural learning has some influence over the later stages of
search. However, such an account would have to assume that this learnt
behaviour is flexible enough to survive the curtailment of a
considerable portion of the pattern of eye-movements. We would argue it
is simpler to account for the present data by assuming the expression of
a pattern-specific sequence of eye-movements that occurs late on in the
search process, following the period of ineffective search.

The current data are also consistent with a late-stage ``response
threshold'' account of CC (\citeproc{ref-sewell2018}{Sewell et al.,
2018}). According to this perspective, the facilitation for repeated
configurations occurs because the target is more readily detected
amongst the surrounding distractors. Analysis of ERPs has revealed
enhanced contra-lateral delay activity (CDA) for repeated over random
configurations. This is thought to reflect ``postselective
(focal-attentional) processing of items held in working memory''
(\citeproc{ref-chen2022}{Chen et al., 2022}). In the present tasks, such
a mechanism would not be affected by the onset of the endogenous cue and
the curtailing of the period of ineffective search. Taken together, the
results here point towards the possibility of three components to the
behaviour in CC: an early ineffective search, followed by enhanced
localisation and increased perceptual discrimination of the target,
driven by the distractors closest to the target.

The effect of CC on visual search has frequently been characterised as
an automatic influence on behaviour (e.g., \citeproc{ref-chun1998}{Chun
\& Jiang, 1998}; \citeproc{ref-chun2000a}{Chun \& Nakayama, 2000};
\citeproc{ref-geyer2021}{Geyer et al., 2021}). This characterisation of
CC comes from multiple aspects of the observed effect. Updating of the
associations is somewhat slow and seemingly inflexible to changes in the
acquired associations (\citeproc{ref-makovski2011}{Makovski \& Jiang,
2011}; \citeproc{ref-manginelli2009}{Manginelli \& Pollmann, 2009};
e.g., \citeproc{ref-zellin2013}{Zellin et al., 2013}), and therefore
perhaps reflects a habitual form of behaviour. In addition, contextual
cuing has frequently been observed in the absence of above-chance
recognition memory for the repeating search configurations (e.g.,
\citeproc{ref-colagiuri2016}{Colagiuri \& Livesey, 2016}), which
suggests a non-conscious, automatically evoked form of behaviour.
Despite this persistent characterisation, the automaticity (or
controllability) of CC has rarely been directly tested in the
literature. To our knowledge, only the experiments of Luque and
colleagues (\citeproc{ref-luque2017b}{Luque et al., 2017};
\citeproc{ref-luque2021}{Luque et al., 2021}) have directly assessed
this aspect of CC, by placing the influence of the configuration in
competition with top-down goals in the task. Their findings supported
the conclusion that CC performance can be controlled and will not guide
search for the target when another aspect of the task governs
attentional control. In the current study, the repeated configurations
continued to have an influence on search performance even when attention
had been guided by the endogenous cue. In this respect, it might be
suggested that these results are somewhat at odds with the conclusions
of Luque and colleagues (\citeproc{ref-luque2017b}{Luque et al., 2017};
\citeproc{ref-luque2021}{Luque et al., 2021}).

To what extent is this behaviour best characterised as ``automatic'' in
nature? Arguably the clearest demonstration of an automatic effect of a
stimulus on behaviour is when the associated behaviour is elicited even
when it is counter-productive to the current goals
(\citeproc{ref-moors2006}{Moors \& De Houwer, 2006}). We could argue
that such a test was constructed in the repeated inconsistent trials of
Experiment 1, in which the repeated configuration was associated with a
target that was previously located in a position on the opposite side of
the screen to the direction indicated by the endogenous cue. If the
repeated configuration had an effect on behaviour on these trials, we
would have expected to see slower response times compared to random
trials. This was not the case: response times were equivalent in these
two conditions. As such it is hard to claim here that the configuration
is having an \emph{automatic} effect on behaviour, according to this
strict characterisation of such an effect. Nevertheless, the experiments
here reveal a flexible interplay between top-down drivers of attention
and configuration-driven effects of attention in CC.

\newpage

\section{Declarations}\label{declarations}

\subsubsection{Funding}\label{funding}

Not applicable

\subsubsection{Conflicts of interest/Competing
interests}\label{conflicts-of-interestcompeting-interests}

Not applicable

\subsubsection{Ethics approval}\label{ethics-approval}

Ethical approval was granted by the Department of Psychology Ethics
Committee, Lancaster University, conforming to the British Psychological
Society Code of Ethics and Conduct.

\subsubsection{Consent to participate}\label{consent-to-participate}

All participants gave informed consent to participate in the study. All
data was stored anonymously at the point of collection.

\subsubsection{Consent for publication}\label{consent-for-publication}

All participants gave informed consent for their (anonymised) data to be
used in publication.

\subsubsection{Availability of data and
materials}\label{availability-of-data-and-materials}

The raw data and experimental materials are freely available at the
project repository \url{http://github.com/tombeesley/CC_EC}

\subsubsection{Code availability}\label{code-availability}

The data analysis scripts and the manuscript source files are available
at \url{http://github.com/tombeesley/CC_EC}. The analyses reported in
this manuscript are computationally reproducible from the manuscript
source files (using R v4.4.0).

\subsubsection{Authors' contributions}\label{authors-contributions}

T.B. Designed the experiments; programmed the experiments; conducted the
statistical analyses; wrote the manuscript. D.L. Designed the
experiments; contributed to the writing of the manuscript. L.E., H.B.,
I.S., I.J., contributed to the design of the experiments; collected the
data; approved the final manuscript version.

\newpage

::: \{\#refs\}

\phantomsection\label{refs}
\begin{CSLReferences}{1}{0}
\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-beesley2018}
Beesley, T., Hanafi, G., Vadillo, M. A., Shanks, David. R., \& Livesey,
E. J. (2018). Overt attention in contextual cuing of visual search is
driven by the attentional set, but not by the predictiveness of
distractors. \emph{Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,
and Cognition}, \emph{44}(5), 707--721.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xlm0000467}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-beesley2015b}
Beesley, T., Vadillo, M. A., Pearson, D., \& Shanks, D. R. (2015).
Pre-exposure of repeated search configurations facilitates subsequent
contextual cuing of visual search. \emph{Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition}, \emph{41}(2), 348--362.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xlm0000033}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-beesley2016}
Beesley, T., Vadillo, M. A., Pearson, D., \& Shanks, D. R. (2016).
Configural learning in contextual cuing of visual search. \emph{Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance},
\emph{42}(8), 1173--1185. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0000185}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-brady2007}
Brady, T. F., \& Chun, M. M. (2007). Spatial constraints on learning in
visual search: {Modeling} contextual cuing. \emph{Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance},
\emph{33}(4), 798--815. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/0096-1523.33.4.798}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-chen2022}
Chen, S., Shi, Z., Zinchenko, A., MÃ¼ller, H. J., \& Geyer, T. (2022).
Cross-modal contextual memory guides selective attention in
visual-search tasks. \emph{Psychophysiology}, \emph{59}(7), e14025.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1111/psyp.14025}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-chun1998}
Chun, M. M., \& Jiang, Y. (1998). Contextual {Cueing}: {Implicit
Learning} and {Memory} of {Visual Context Guides Spatial Attention}.
\emph{Cognitive Psychology}, \emph{36}(1), 28--71.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1006/cogp.1998.0681}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-chun2000a}
Chun, M. M., \& Nakayama, K. (2000). On the {Functional Role} of
{Implicit Visual Memory} for the {Adaptive Deployment} of {Attention
Across Scenes}. \emph{Visual Cognition}, \emph{7}(1-3), 65--81.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1080/135062800394685}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-colagiuri2016}
Colagiuri, B., \& Livesey, E. J. (2016). Contextual cuing as a form of
nonconscious learning: {Theoretical} and empirical analysis in large and
very large samples. \emph{Psychonomic Bulletin \& Review}, \emph{23}(6),
1996--2009. \url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-016-1063-0}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-cousineau2005}
Cousineau, D. (2005). Confidence intervals in within-subject designs:
{A} simpler solution to {Loftus} and {Masson}'s method. \emph{Tutorials
in Quantitative Methods for Psychology}, \emph{1}(1), 42--45.
\url{https://doi.org/10.20982/tqmp.01.1.p042}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-geyer2021}
Geyer, T., Seitz, W., Zinchenko, A., MÃ¼ller, H. J., \& Conci, M. (2021).
Why {Are Acquired Search-Guiding Context Memories Resistant} to
{Updating}? \emph{Frontiers in Psychology}, \emph{12}, 650245.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.650245}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-kunar2007}
Kunar, M. A., Flusberg, S., Horowitz, T. S., \& Wolfe, J. M. (2007).
Does contextual cuing guide the deployment of attention? \emph{Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance},
\emph{33}(4), 816--828. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/0096-1523.33.4.816}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-luque2021}
Luque, D., Beesley, T., Molinero, S., \& Vadillo, M. A. (2021).
Contextual cuing of visual search does not guide attention automatically
in the presence of top-down goals. \emph{Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Human Perception and Performance}, \emph{47}(8), 1080--1090.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0000930}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-luque2017b}
Luque, D., Vadillo, M. A., Lopez, F. J., Alonso, R., \& Shanks, D. R.
(2017). Testing the controllability of contextual cuing of visual
search. \emph{Scientific Reports}, \emph{7}(1), 39645.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1038/srep39645}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-makovski2011}
Makovski, T., \& Jiang, Y. V. (2011). Investigating the {Role} of
{Response} in {Spatial Context Learning}. \emph{Quarterly Journal of
Experimental Psychology}, \emph{64}(8), 1563--1579.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1080/17470218.2011.564291}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-manginelli2009}
Manginelli, A. A., \& Pollmann, S. (2009). Misleading contextual cues:
{How} do they affect visual search? \emph{Psychological Research},
\emph{73}(2), 212--221. \url{https://doi.org/10.1007/s00426-008-0211-1}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-moors2006}
Moors, A., \& De Houwer, J. (2006). Automaticity: {A Theoretical} and
{Conceptual Analysis}. \emph{Psychological Bulletin}, \emph{132}(2),
297--326. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.132.2.297}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-olson2002}
Olson, I. R., \& Chun, M. M. (2002). Perceptual constraints on implicit
learning of spatial context. \emph{Visual Cognition}, \emph{9}(3),
273--302. \url{https://doi.org/10.1080/13506280042000162}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-renaux2017}
Renaux, C., RiviÃ¨re, V., Craddock, P., \& Miller, R. R. (2017). Role of
spatial contiguity in sensory preconditioning with humans.
\emph{Behavioural Processes}, \emph{142}, 141--145.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.beproc.2017.07.005}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-rouder2017}
Rouder, J. N., Morey, R. D., Verhagen, J., Swagman, A. R., \&
Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2017). Bayesian analysis of factorial designs.
\emph{Psychological Methods}, \emph{22}(2), 304--321.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000057}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-seitz2023}
Seitz, W., Zinchenko, A., MÃ¼ller, H. J., \& Geyer, T. (2023). Contextual
cueing of visual search reflects the acquisition of an optimal,
one-for-all oculomotor scanning strategy. \emph{Communications
Psychology}, \emph{1}(1, 1), 1--12.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1038/s44271-023-00019-8}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-sewell2018}
Sewell, D. K., Colagiuri, B., \& Livesey, E. J. (2018). Response time
modeling reveals multiple contextual cuing mechanisms. \emph{Psychonomic
Bulletin \& Review}, \emph{25}(5), 1644--1665.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-017-1364-y}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-sisk2019}
Sisk, C. A., Remington, R. W., \& Jiang, Y. V. (2019). Mechanisms of
contextual cueing: {A} tutorial review. \emph{Attention, Perception, \&
Psychophysics}, \emph{81}(8), 2571--2589.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13414-019-01832-2}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-smyth2008}
Smyth, A. C., \& Shanks, D. R. (2008). Awareness in contextual cuing
with extended and concurrent explicit tests. \emph{Memory \& Cognition},
\emph{36}(2), 403--415. \url{https://doi.org/10.3758/MC.36.2.403}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-tseng2004}
Tseng, Y.-C., \& Li, C.-S. R. (2004). Oculomotor correlates of
context-guided learning in visual search. \emph{Perception \&
Psychophysics}, \emph{66}(8), 1363--1378.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/BF03195004}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-vadillo2016}
Vadillo, M. A., Konstantinidis, E., \& Shanks, D. R. (2016).
Underpowered samples, false negatives, and unconscious learning.
\emph{Psychonomic Bulletin \& Review}, \emph{23}(1), 87--102.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-015-0892-6}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-wetzels2011}
Wetzels, R., Matzke, D., Lee, M. D., Rouder, J. N., Iverson, G. J., \&
Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2011). Statistical {Evidence} in {Experimental
Psychology}: {An Empirical Comparison Using} 855 t {Tests}.
\emph{Perspectives on Psychological Science}, \emph{6}(3), 291--298.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691611406923}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-zellin2013}
Zellin, M., von Muhlenen, A., Muller, H. J., \& Conci, M. (2013).
Statistical learning in the past modulates contextual cueing in the
future. \emph{Journal of Vision}, \emph{13}(3), 19--19.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1167/13.3.19}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-beesley2018}
Beesley, T., Hanafi, G., Vadillo, M. A., Shanks, David. R., \& Livesey,
E. J. (2018). Overt attention in contextual cuing of visual search is
driven by the attentional set, but not by the predictiveness of
distractors. \emph{Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,
and Cognition}, \emph{44}(5), 707--721.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xlm0000467}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-beesley2015b}
Beesley, T., Vadillo, M. A., Pearson, D., \& Shanks, D. R. (2015).
Pre-exposure of repeated search configurations facilitates subsequent
contextual cuing of visual search. \emph{Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition}, \emph{41}(2), 348--362.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xlm0000033}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-beesley2016}
Beesley, T., Vadillo, M. A., Pearson, D., \& Shanks, D. R. (2016).
Configural learning in contextual cuing of visual search. \emph{Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance},
\emph{42}(8), 1173--1185. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0000185}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-brady2007}
Brady, T. F., \& Chun, M. M. (2007). Spatial constraints on learning in
visual search: {Modeling} contextual cuing. \emph{Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance},
\emph{33}(4), 798--815. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/0096-1523.33.4.798}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-chen2022}
Chen, S., Shi, Z., Zinchenko, A., MÃ¼ller, H. J., \& Geyer, T. (2022).
Cross-modal contextual memory guides selective attention in
visual-search tasks. \emph{Psychophysiology}, \emph{59}(7), e14025.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1111/psyp.14025}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-chun1998}
Chun, M. M., \& Jiang, Y. (1998). Contextual {Cueing}: {Implicit
Learning} and {Memory} of {Visual Context Guides Spatial Attention}.
\emph{Cognitive Psychology}, \emph{36}(1), 28--71.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1006/cogp.1998.0681}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-chun2000a}
Chun, M. M., \& Nakayama, K. (2000). On the {Functional Role} of
{Implicit Visual Memory} for the {Adaptive Deployment} of {Attention
Across Scenes}. \emph{Visual Cognition}, \emph{7}(1-3), 65--81.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1080/135062800394685}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-colagiuri2016}
Colagiuri, B., \& Livesey, E. J. (2016). Contextual cuing as a form of
nonconscious learning: {Theoretical} and empirical analysis in large and
very large samples. \emph{Psychonomic Bulletin \& Review}, \emph{23}(6),
1996--2009. \url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-016-1063-0}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-cousineau2005}
*Cousineau, D. (2005). Confidence intervals in within-subject designs:
{A} simpler solution to {Loftus} and {Masson}'s method. \emph{Tutorials
in Quantitative Methods for Psychology}, \emph{1}(1), 42--45.
\url{https://doi.org/10.20982/tqmp.01.1.p042}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-geyer2021}
Geyer, T., Seitz, W., Zinchenko, A., MÃ¼ller, H. J., \& Conci, M. (2021).
Why {Are Acquired Search-Guiding Context Memories Resistant} to
{Updating}? \emph{Frontiers in Psychology}, \emph{12}, 650245.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.650245}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-kunar2007}
Kunar, M. A., Flusberg, S., Horowitz, T. S., \& Wolfe, J. M. (2007).
Does contextual cuing guide the deployment of attention? \emph{Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance},
\emph{33}(4), 816--828. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/0096-1523.33.4.816}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-luque2021}
Luque, D., Beesley, T., Molinero, S., \& Vadillo, M. A. (2021).
Contextual cuing of visual search does not guide attention automatically
in the presence of top-down goals. \emph{Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Human Perception and Performance}, \emph{47}(8), 1080--1090.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0000930}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-luque2017b}
Luque, D., Vadillo, M. A., Lopez, F. J., Alonso, R., \& Shanks, D. R.
(2017). Testing the controllability of contextual cuing of visual
search. \emph{Scientific Reports}, \emph{7}(1), 39645.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1038/srep39645}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-makovski2011}
Makovski, T., \& Jiang, Y. V. (2011). Investigating the {Role} of
{Response} in {Spatial Context Learning}. \emph{Quarterly Journal of
Experimental Psychology}, \emph{64}(8), 1563--1579.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1080/17470218.2011.564291}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-manginelli2009}
Manginelli, A. A., \& Pollmann, S. (2009). Misleading contextual cues:
{How} do they affect visual search? \emph{Psychological Research},
\emph{73}(2), 212--221. \url{https://doi.org/10.1007/s00426-008-0211-1}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-moors2006}
Moors, A., \& De Houwer, J. (2006). Automaticity: {A Theoretical} and
{Conceptual Analysis}. \emph{Psychological Bulletin}, \emph{132}(2),
297--326. \url{https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.132.2.297}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-olson2002}
Olson, I. R., \& Chun, M. M. (2002). Perceptual constraints on implicit
learning of spatial context. \emph{Visual Cognition}, \emph{9}(3),
273--302. \url{https://doi.org/10.1080/13506280042000162}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-renaux2017}
Renaux, C., RiviÃ¨re, V., Craddock, P., \& Miller, R. R. (2017). Role of
spatial contiguity in sensory preconditioning with humans.
\emph{Behavioural Processes}, \emph{142}, 141--145.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.beproc.2017.07.005}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-rouder2017}
Rouder, J. N., Morey, R. D., Verhagen, J., Swagman, A. R., \&
Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2017). Bayesian analysis of factorial designs.
\emph{Psychological Methods}, \emph{22}(2), 304--321.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000057}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-seitz2023}
Seitz, W., Zinchenko, A., MÃ¼ller, H. J., \& Geyer, T. (2023). Contextual
cueing of visual search reflects the acquisition of an optimal,
one-for-all oculomotor scanning strategy. \emph{Communications
Psychology}, \emph{1}(1, 1), 1--12.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1038/s44271-023-00019-8}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-sewell2018}
Sewell, D. K., Colagiuri, B., \& Livesey, E. J. (2018). Response time
modeling reveals multiple contextual cuing mechanisms. \emph{Psychonomic
Bulletin \& Review}, \emph{25}(5), 1644--1665.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-017-1364-y}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-sisk2019}
Sisk, C. A., Remington, R. W., \& Jiang, Y. V. (2019). Mechanisms of
contextual cueing: {A} tutorial review. \emph{Attention, Perception, \&
Psychophysics}, \emph{81}(8), 2571--2589.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13414-019-01832-2}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-smyth2008}
Smyth, A. C., \& Shanks, D. R. (2008). Awareness in contextual cuing
with extended and concurrent explicit tests. \emph{Memory \& Cognition},
\emph{36}(2), 403--415. \url{https://doi.org/10.3758/MC.36.2.403}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-tseng2004}
Tseng, Y.-C., \& Li, C.-S. R. (2004). Oculomotor correlates of
context-guided learning in visual search. \emph{Perception \&
Psychophysics}, \emph{66}(8), 1363--1378.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/BF03195004}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-vadillo2016}
Vadillo, M. A., Konstantinidis, E., \& Shanks, D. R. (2016).
Underpowered samples, false negatives, and unconscious learning.
\emph{Psychonomic Bulletin \& Review}, \emph{23}(1), 87--102.
\url{https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-015-0892-6}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-wetzels2011}
Wetzels, R., Matzke, D., Lee, M. D., Rouder, J. N., Iverson, G. J., \&
Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2011). Statistical {Evidence} in {Experimental
Psychology}: {An Empirical Comparison Using} 855 t {Tests}.
\emph{Perspectives on Psychological Science}, \emph{6}(3), 291--298.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691611406923}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-zellin2013}
Zellin, M., von Muhlenen, A., Muller, H. J., \& Conci, M. (2013).
Statistical learning in the past modulates contextual cueing in the
future. \emph{Journal of Vision}, \emph{13}(3), 19--19.
\url{https://doi.org/10.1167/13.3.19}

\end{CSLReferences}






\end{document}
